# Writeup

### Motivation
The entire process of building this project right from scratch was a really valuable learning experience for me mostly because I got the chance to apply something I have learned in other courses. One major thing that motivated me to take up this project was the opportunity to design and build a project of my own choice. I am currently taking a course in Machine Learning where we learnt how to build, train and assess machine learning models based on their performances. But I was always curious about what happens next after the models have been evaluated and deemed good models. That curiosity is what led me to choose this project. The thought of being able to train a model to predict a disease sounded adventurous and tough to implement.  I knew it was not going to be easy but I focused on getting results and that helped me complete it.

### Challenges 
I stumbled upon some challenges at the beginning. One of them was finding the right classifiers to use to build my models. I later came up with a way of using not one but five different classifiers to build five different models. All I had to do was take the mode of all the five results. I did this because all models gave me similar accuracy scores. Another challenge I had was finding a way to ensure that the user got their predictions even if the symptoms were not entered in a way the models could recognize and use them to predict. I trained the models on a dataset that had specific names for symptoms so if you entered a symptom that the model does not know it would raise an error. I consulted Prof. Parent and he suggested that I look up a term called “fuzzy string matching”. This fuzzy matching tool helped me compare the users symptoms with the ones the models were trained with and check their difference. If the difference is low, then the model uses those symptoms to predict.  For every obstacle that I faced in putting this project together, there was always a way to either find a solution or look for another way to approach solving that problem.


### Core Functionality 
The core functionality of this project at the end is that it takes a user’s symptoms and uses the machine learning models that I built to predict their disease. For this to work, the user has to type as many symptoms as possible to obtain more accurate predictions. If the program could not match the input symptoms to the symptoms used to train the models, it will ask the user to try again and rephrase their symptoms. As a result of the extension I added using Tkinter, the program is more interactive and easy to use. I also included an additional button which clears the input in the textbox for you.